I am José Gervasio Artigas, I
was born in 1764 in Montevideo,
current day Uruguay. My significance crossed
national boundaries as I am considered architect
of a feeling of uniqueness and regional pride
that eventually led to independence in Uruguay.
In 1810, I was attracted to a patriotic cause
and from 1810 to 1811 I commanded Uruguayan
patriots in the war of independence against the
Spanish. I conquered almost all of Uruguay except
for the city of Montevideo. Then I became the
spokesman for those who wanted more autonomy for
the provinces that wanted to form the Viceroyalty
of the silver River Plate which contains most of
current day south American southern countries.
By that time, Buenos Aires favored little
provincial autonomy and a strong central
government located in Buenos Aires. As this
contradicts with my followers’ beliefs, a civil
war between my forces and Buenos Aires began.
Both forces were well matched. I had the support
of the region that would become Uruguay and also
the support of four river provinces that made up
the Liga Federal, a confederation of provinces.
Buenos Aires, in addition to the
population of the province and city,
had the revenue of the port facilities and
the allegiance of some interior provinces.
I participated in the successful siege of
Montevideo, which the Spanish still held, and
in 1815 entered Buenos Aires in triumph. But in
1816 I faced ultimate defeat when the Portuguese,
hoping to add the liberated regions to Brazil,
invaded Uruguay. After a 4-year struggle my forces
were defeated. I later lived in exile in Paraguay.
1828 was the year of Uruguayan independence. I was
invited to return by my victorious followers,
but I declined as I never favored independence
for Uruguay, always preferring the concept of
a confederation of all provinces making up the
former viceroyalty of the silver River Plate.
I died in 1850 wishing people of my region to
live in prosperity and benefit from
the blessings we have in our land.
I hope this desire lives to this day and
societies are flourishing on our fertile lands.